# IAMX DID Specification Draft v0.5

# Status of This Document

This is a draft document and may be updated, replaced or obsoleted by other documents at any time. It is inappropriate to cite this document as other than work in progress.

# Contributions

[IAMX AG](https://iamx.id/)  
Dammstrasse 16  
6300 Zug  
Switzerland  
<https://iamx.id/>

Contact: <contact@imax.id>

## Contributors:

- Tim Brückmann
- Tim Heidfeld
- Jochen Leinberger
- Dennis Mittmann

# Abstract

This specification describes a new DID method called IAMX for hosting DIDs on the Cardano blockchain, also referred to as IAMX DID. This specification conforms to the requirements specified in the [DIDs specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/) currently published by the W3C Credentials Community Group.

# Contents

1. [Conformance and Terminology](#1-conformance-and-terminology)
2. [IAMX DID Syntax](#2-iamx-did-syntax)
3. [Identifiers](#3-identifiers)
4. [DID operations](#4-did-operations)
5. [Security Considerations](#5-security-considerations)
6. [Privacy Considerations](#6-privacy-considerations)
7. [Appendix](#7-appendix)

# 1. Conformance and Terminology

This specification assumes a fair degree of understanding of [W3C DIDs specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/).

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "SHOULD", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [IETF RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119).

# 2. IAMX DID Syntax

IAMX DID is a URI conforming to [IETF RFC 3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986) and **SHOULD** be generated by each entity itself.

IAMX DID is generated in conformity with [W3C DIDs specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/).

IAMX LEDGER is an alphanumeric string

IAMX UID (specific-idstring) is conforming to [IETF RFC 4122](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4122.txt)

The ABNF grammar used to generate the IAMX DID identifier is as follows:

```
iamx-did = did:iamx: ledger : specific-idstring
ledger = ledger identifyer
specific-idstring = xxxxxxxx-xxxx-4xxx-yxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx

```

`did:iamx:cardano:` denotes that IAMX DIDs are decentralized identifiers conforming to [W3C DIDs specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/), and are registered on the Cardano blockchain.

Below is an example of a IAMX DID:

```

did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453

```

## 2.2. IAMX DID document properties

An IAMX DID document can have three distinct properties:

- **created**: poperty with the Date when the document was created.
- **registered**: poperty with the Date when the document was registered.
- **update**: poperty with the Date when the document was updated.
- **deactivated**: : poperty with the Date when the DID was deactivated.

A deactivated IAMX DID can no longer be used and cannot be reactivated for use.

## 2.3. IAMX DID Document

Each IAMX DID will have a corresponding IAMX DID Document, which is a set of data describing this IAMX DID.

Below is the basic structure of the IAMX DID Document:

```json
{
  "context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"],
  "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
  "authentication": {
    "id": "",
    "type": "",
    "controller": "",
    "publicKeyMultibase": ""
  },
  "credentials": []
}
```

## 2.4. Context

IAMX DID document's **MUST** include a `@context` property.

The value of the @context property **MUST** be one or more URIs, where the value of the first URI **MUST** be [https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1](https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1). For more information, see [W3C DID specification](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#production-0).

Below is an example in which the `@context` property has two values:

```json
{
  "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"]
}
```

# 3. Identifiers

IAMX DID document's **MUST** include an `id` property.

The value of the `id` property denotes the IAMX DID subject that the IAMX DID Document is about.

The value of `id` **MUST** be a valid IAMX DID. A IAMX DID **MUST** have exactly one DID subject.

```json
{
  "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453"
}
```

## 3.1. Verification Methods

An IAMX DID Document **MAY** includes a `verificationMethod` property to specify a set of public keys linked to that IAMX DID.

Public and private key pairs can be used for the identity management, authorization, and verification of IAMX DID's. A IAMX DID can be linked to multiple public and private key pairs, and one pair of public and private keys can also be used to manage multiple IAMX DID's.

Every public key object linked to the `verificationMethod` property **MUST** include the fields `id`, `type`, `controller` and specific public key properties, and **MAY** include other additional properties.

Each linked public key has its own identifier specified using the field `id`. The value of `verificationMethod` **MUST NOT** contain multiple entries with the same `id`.

Bound public keys can be revoked. Revoked public keys **MUST NOT** be reactivated, but can still possess the original `id`.

The value of the `type` field represents the corresponding public key type. IAMX DID document's support `BIP32-Ed25519`.

The value of the `controller` field which identifies the controller of the corresponding private key **MUST** be a valid IAMX DID, implying that the public key is controlled by this IAMX DID.

The encoding formats that IAMX DID Documents support include `publicKeyHex` and `AdaAddress`. Public keys of all types **MUST** be expressed in these two formats.

Below is a specific example of the `verificationMethod` property:

```json
{
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
      "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
      "controller": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
      "publicKeyMultibase": "0xfbf38de9fb40edcdab412094d24fa39a314f3d3f52f5860e2509c32522eda30161fe70dfc9f90434d64bd976ede4f112d4f2d8e34d28fe48281663219d2ddac6"
    },
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
      "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
      "controller": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
      "AdaAddress": "addr1qxjq9aj8hy29jkp9dxeepe88ksayl4kqw7qe8et33j6ucxmj2ldj3f0f2l3xrk8ep7hwvde3wa8l9w4wkp8wxfshta2sya6pxt"
    }
  ]
}
```

## 3.2. Authentication

IAMX DID Documents **SHOULD** include an `authentication` property to specify a set of verification methods.

A IAMX DID subject could add the `authentication` property in its corresponding IAMX DID Document to denote that the subject has authorized a set of verification methods for the purpose of authentication.

The associated value **MUST** be an ordered set of one or more verification methods. Each verification methods in the `authentication` property **MAY** be embedded or referenced.

Below is an example which refers to authentication keys in the two-way specified above:

```json
{
  ...
  "authentication": [
  "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
  {
    "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-2",
    "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
    "controller": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
    "publicKeyMultibase": "03a835599850544b4c0a222d594be5d59cf298f5a3fd90bff1c8caa064523745f3"
  }
  ],
}
```

## 3.3. Authorization and Delegation

In an IAMX DID Document, an **OPTIONAL** `controller` property is included to assign one or more delegates.

A IAMX DID can be delegated to and controlled by one or more distinct IAMX DID's.

A IAMX DID delegate has the necessary authorization to insert a new verification methods into the `authentication` property of the delegated IAMX DID.

It is worth noting that a IAMX DID Document can assign `controller` without defining the value of `authentication`.

The IAMX DID Document of the delegate **SHOULD** have a `authentication` property.

Below is a specific example representing that either `did:iamx:cardano:5Ee76017be7F983a520a778B413758A9DB49cBe9` or `did:iamx:cardano:9861eE37Ede3dCab070DF227155D86A7438d8Ed2` can act as a delegate of `did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453`:

```json
{
  ...
  "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
  "controller": [
    "did:iamx:cardano:5Ee76017be7F983a520a778B413758A9DB49cBe9",
    "did:iamx:cardano:9861eE37Ede3dCab070DF227155D86A7438d8Ed2"
  ],
}
```

## 3.4. Service Information

IAMX DID document's use an **OPTIONAL** `service` property to specify the service property.

IAMX DID's allow entities to add services and specify the relevant information of a service that is related to the particular IAMX DID, including fields such as the type of service and service endpoint.

This part is derived directly from [W3C DID specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#services).

Below is a specific example:

```json
{
  ...
  "service": [
  {
    "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#some-service",
    "type": "SomeServiceType",
    "serviceEndpoint": "Some URL"
  }
  ]
}
```

# 4. DID operations

All methods **SHOULD** include a property denoting the supported method which is executed against the current IAMX DID document. The property needs to specify a timestamp of the most recent change.

This part is derived directly from [W3C DID specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#updated).

## 4.1. Create

Creation of the DID including the private & public key pair is done **off chain** on a device controlled by the holder.
Within the metadata of the DID document, a **created** property is added.
IAMX DID can be automatically created without registration for each Cardano address.

```json
{
  "created": "2019-06-30T12:00:00Z"
}
```

As part of the **creation** operation, the initial IAMX DID document will be written to blockchain ledger in order to register the DID.
Within the metadata of the DID document, a **registered** property is added.

```json
{
  "registered": "2019-06-30T12:00:00Z"
}
```

## 4.3. Update

Updating of an IAMX DID will generate new private & public key's and is done on a device controlled by the user.
Updating an IAMX DID Document is done by making a transaction which contains the old DID and writes a new DID as part of the transaction metadata into the blockchain ledger.
Within the metadata of the DID document, a **updated** property is added

```json
{
  "updated": "2019-06-30T12:00:00Z"
}
```

## 4.5. Deactivation

Deactivating an IAMX DID Document is done by making a transaction which contains the old DID and writes a new DID as part of the transaction metadata into the blockchain ledger.
Within the metadata of the DID document, a **deactivation** property is added.

```json
{
  "deactivated": "2019-06-30T12:00:00Z"
}
```

# 5. Security Considerations

The security of the IAMX model is based on the security of the underlying blockchain ledger. Currently, the only supported blockchain is Cardano.

The Cardano security is based on the Ouroboros protocol. Ouroboros features mathematically verifiable security against attackers. Security properties for the protocol are comparable to those achieved by the bitcoin blockchain protocol. For more details on the protocol can be found in the white paper:  
https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/889.pdf

IAMX DID's will be stored in an address controlled by the holder. This ensures that third parties can't modify, register, update or deactivate the DID document controlled by the holder.

## 5.1. Binding to Physical Identity

A IAMX DID document stored on the Blockchain will never contain any personal information. Ownership is proofed by:

- Control over the blockchain address.
- Control over of the private key which is related to the public key referenced in the IAMX DID document.

## 5.2. DID document changes

As all IAMX DID methods are generated by a transaction which includes the previous DID, the DID document changes can be monitored by observing the global state of the blockchain ledger.

# 6. Privacy Considerations

## 6.1. Surveillance

In the public Cardano network, all transactions are visible by watching the blockchain.

## 6.2. Stored data compromise

The DID Document data and history is stored in the blockchain state.
The Blockchain state is secured by the consensus method of Ouroboros. For Details see the cardano white paper:  
https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/889.pdf

## 6.4. Identification

If personal information is added to the blockchain, potentially a viable credential, this can be permanently accessed. With enough identifying information, an identity can be deduced.

For this reason, it is very strongly suggested that personal information is not added to the blockchain.

Therefore IAMX DID document will **NEVER** contain any personal Data.

## 6.3. Separation of concerns

DID's are purpose build, which means the holder will control several DID's for distinct Use Cases.

## 6.4. Traceability

To avoid traceability of a verifiable presentation, a new did document **can** be generated of during the generation of each verifiable presentation. For each new DID document, a new privat-public key pair can be generated. This avoids correlation based tracing of the user.

## 6.5. Misattribution

Create, update and (if supported) deactivate DID operations require transactions signed by the private keys only owned by the DID controller and cannot be forged.

# 7. Appendix

A simple example of a IAMX DID Document is as follows:

```json
{
  "context": [
    "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
    "https://w3id.org/security/suites/ed25519-2020/v1"
  ],
  "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
  "updated": "2019-06-30T12:00:00Z",
  "authentication": [
    "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-2",
      "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
      "controller": [
        "did:iamx:cardano:5Ee76017be7F983a520a778B413758A9DB49cBe9",
        "did:iamx:cardano:9861eE37Ede3dCab070DF227155D86A7438d8Ed2"
      ],
      "publicKeyMultibase": "03a835599850544b4c0a222d594be5d59cf298f5a3fd90bff1c8caa064523745f3"
    }
  ],
  "verificationMethod": [
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
      "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
      "controller": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
      "publicKeyHex": "0xfbf38de9fb40edcdab412094d24fa39a314f3d3f52f5860e2509c32522eda30161fe70dfc9f90434d64bd976ede4f112d4f2d8e34d28fe48281663219d2ddac6"
    },
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#keys-1",
      "type": "BIP32-Ed25519",
      "controller": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453",
      "AdaAddress": "addr1qxjq9aj8hy29jkp9dxeepe88ksayl4kqw7qe8et33j6ucxmj2ldj3f0f2l3xrk8ep7hwvde3wa8l9w4wkp8wxfshta2sya6pxt"
    }
  ],
  "service": [
    {
      "id": "did:iamx:cardano:d36d6f76-e463-4e48-a97e-908edaee6453#some-service",
      "type": "SomeServiceType",
      "serviceEndpoint": "Some URL"
    }
  ],
  "credentials": [
    {
      "data": "debc879591e984d2f7521a414d1264a79135ea62fe97ad7abfffbaa2efd485ca",
      "publicKeyMultibase": "-----BEGIN RSA PUBLIC KEY-----\nMIIBCgKCAQEAs7Z/wvbS0Cg2AkdPJJ/cd8inoNUNJAZAIUlJPosyVruwMHLT707+\n6VTzV4qSQRMVQ1IJe22hQGLYqGvdN6TrXU5X3DsyyJxkBgHd35tOTSrUZDKOS7gX\n+yfj6YqRZvi+2Xfegj5kJX2hT/EOfYWO1KbFpjM+zovOQ9Um/ljwWsj9019Wv76m\nWhlpepKnR7k8tjHLdlM6iksbQltEpq79r2HEYj9hRKCoV5d1uWYd7906K1asN0zh\n8XroQESwu8Tp/kIhvXyP4WjxOJj2lh5ZpjtrJ3Qbk9ZPF7KNcAmEgqBo6fDz1Z9Q\ndlp6HTc2xuKPN1h913i5GdamCHpHphucMwIDAQAB\n-----END RSA PUBLIC KEY-----\n"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Normative References

[W3C-DID]

Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) v1.0. W3C. Jul 2020. Working Draft. URL: https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/

[RFC2119]

Keywords for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels. S. Bradner. IETF. March 1997. Best Current Practice. URL: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119

[RFC4122]

A Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) URN Namespace P. Leach July 2005 URL: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4122.txt

[RFC3986]

Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax. T. Berners-Lee; R. Fielding; L. Masinter. IETF. JANUARY 2005. Standards Track. URL: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986
